
GENERAL INFORMATION

1. Title of Dataset: "Differential transport of a guild of mutualistic root aphids by the ant Lasius flavus” published in Current Zoology

2. Author Information
	A. Principal Investigator Contact Information
  	 Name: Thomas Parmentier	
  	 Institution: Ghent University
  	 Address: Ghent, Belgium
  	 Email: Thomas.Parmentier@ugent.be
	
3. Date of data collection (single date, range, approximate date): March and April 2022

4. Geographic location of data collection: Belgium

5. Information about funding sources that supported the collection of the data: FWO (grant 1203020N) and FNRS (30257865)


SHARING/ACCESS INFORMATION

1. Licenses/restrictions placed on the data: CC0 1.0 Universal (CC0 1.0) Public Domain

2. Links to publications that cite or use the data:

Thomas Parmentier, Differential transport of a guild of mutualistic root aphids by the ant Lasius flavus, Current Zoology, Volume 69, Issue 4, August 2023, Pages 409–417, https://doi.org/10.1093/cz/zoac060

3. Links to other publicly accessible locations of the data: None

4. Links/relationships to ancillary data sets: None

5. Was data derived from another source? No


DATA & FILE OVERVIEW

The data is stored in two.txt files (the data is also available as supplementary material in the original publication: ESM3 - data.xlsx)

no-choice experiment and behav.txt

	colony: colony id (categorical data)
	species: aphid species (categorical data)
	type: type of association with ant (categorical data)
	Antennation: number of this interaction (count data)
	Inspecting: number of this interaction (count data)
	Ignoring: number of this interaction (count data)
	Biting: number of this interaction (count data)
	Opening_mandibles: number of this interaction (count data)
	Bending_abdomen: number of this interaction (count data)
	Carrying: number of this interaction (count data)
	Interactions: total number of interactions (count data)


choice experiment.txt
	
	id: 35 individuals per set (categorical data)
	set: 60 sets of trials (categorical data)
	colony: host colony (categorical data)
	trophobiont: aphid species + ant larva (categorical data)
	host: ant host (categorical)
	time(minutes): time when trophobiont is carried (numeric)
	status: transported or not (binary)
	sequence: 1-10 for each colony (numeric)

